IoWA Training Interface
====
A tool for new and experienced League of Legends players to give them the information needed to get better at the game.
Kellvas: Theory, Algorithms, Wizardy
williamtdr: Coding, Voodoo

Project Goals: Give players recommendations for roles and champions that are similar to the roles and/or champions that they have a high success rate with.

Personal Goal:
Obviously, the two of us (williamtdr and Kellvas) like free stuff but those things are rather secondary overall.  Our main intent of this project is to be noticed by riot and possibly become able to work with them on other projects.  For example, Kellvas comes up with champion ideas that are developed up to their full kit and scalings and even goes towards some lore and character development if he likes the idea (i.e. Kellvas wants to get his champion ideas into the game).

Using the ranked and mastery data, all of the champions played by a given player are sorted in order of the highest success score.  The success score is based upon the average kills, deaths, assists, damage taken, damage dealt, and gold earned per game on a champion.  This data is then weighted based upon the attributes of the champion then factored with winrate and champion mastery in proportion to level 5 mastery in order to subdivide the estimated success rate of the player on that champion.  Additionally, IoWA takes the total data for all champions and performs the same calculations but checks each attribute in order to determine what attribute the player is most successful with.  The theory is that a player good at one type of champion will be good at similar champions who fill similar roles.

So how did I (Kellvas) decide upon the few pieces of information in order to calculated ranked success rates of a player?  Well initially, I brainstormed a list of factors that could effectively differentiate a player's skills with a champion.  In addition to the 6 items which are used in my final algorithm (Kills, Assists, Deaths, Gold Earned, Winrate, Damage done, and Damage taken), I determined that Game Duration, Buildings destroyed, and Damage dealt to champions were important.  However, upon looking more closely to the official data we had access to, I ommitted these three pieces due to their inaccessibility in a reliable manner (outside of match history).  Thus, I considered how these factors go into the success of a player on a given champion.  I understood that certain attributes had certain overall goals during the game (e.g. Tanks soak damage, and Assassins get kills).  As such, I considered how a percentile breakdown of a champion's game data contribute to success.  From this, I created a spreadsheet (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1--rx0OW8olTO1gbov1vhL0MSJgP-aRi7AoiofGZkEeE/edit#gid=0) which calculated theoretical success values for each attribute.  Basically, it takes average values of the 6 stats used and, after factoring the large values (Gold, and Damage) in order to allow the data to not be skewed, uses percentile weights to interpret the data based upon attribute.  The scores are then used to determine the success rate of that champion with higher scores meaning better success and lower scores meaning less success.  Additionally, teh attributes Support, Marksman, and Assassin have additional weights added (105%, 95%, and 95% respectively) in order to account for the natures of those attributes needing an overall higher score to be "successful."  From this, the ranked winrate on the champion is used to subdivide these scores and champion mastery in comparison to level 5 mastery even further subdivides these values.  The idea is that a person with low winrates but high mastery are likely to be  more successful overall for one champion compared to another while the actual score itself helps to determine if that player's contribution to that match constitutes a representation of success.  Of course, in this process we also discovered at least one bug in the data itself.  For Example: did you know that as of the time of this being written (5/7/2016 at 8:10PM CDT) that Shen's attribute tages in the client are mislabeled? His attributes that are supposed to be Tank Fighter are coded as Tank "Melee" which caused his success scores to be initially incorrect for all cases because "Melee" was a tag that wasn't accounted for because it isn't an actual attribute (As one might say, Spaghetti Code strikes again).  As such, we had to make the algorithm treat "Melee" as the same as "Fighter."  Other than that moment of interest, the process worked really well when using the data that Riot gave us.  Just based upon initial tests, IoWA seems to accurately sort champions in order of success rates, without any overskewing of the resulting scores to favor one piece of data or another.

Added cosmetics (total winrates, kills, etc.)
Added usability features (sidebar buttons and specific champion info)
Added 3rd party build sites?
